[Music]
hey kids you've probably seen this scene
in TV or movies at some point a couple
of people end up stranded on a desert
island totally isolated from aussolas
ation it seems like there's no hope for
survival but then one of them looks
three feet to the left and oh my god
it's a tree full of fully grown plump
delicious smiling golden skin bananas
amazing we're saved for the time being
hey don't eat those they're made of Lies
see listen why do fruit exists for a
delicious nutritious snack for humans
and animals alike to enjoy you know you
didn't have to go throwing him into the
Sun like that you're next Susan how did
you know my name I created you
anyway as most of you probably know
fruit are a thing because nature figured
out hey if you put a little bit of
deliciousness around your seed it'll
convince some idiot bird or something to
carry your baby off to faraway lands
right but then humans showed up and
we're like hey that's pretty nifty
listen is it cool if we selectively
breed you for thousands of years to give
you horrific deformities to crank up
that whole deliciousness part a couple
hundred notches all right
cool let's take a look at bananas
specifically the Cavendish variety that
we all know and love on the inside we
got like 2% seeds 93% delectable banana
meat and 5% that brown part at the
bottom that your mom says is perfectly
fine to eat but you still don't trust
great for a snack terrible for
reproducing efficiently meanwhile check
out the thing on the right here
that's musa acuminata one of the
suspected ancestors of today's nanners
much smaller and jam-packed with seeds
with just enough flesh in there to make
it worth some smelly primates time to
crack open a yellow one with the boys
here's another wild-type banana musa
Balby xiana
less sweet waste starchy are harder to
get into hella seeds same [__] different
day really today if you stick that boy
in the ground you've got an okay chance
of making a new banana tree you bury a
modern banana all you're gonna end up
with is a dirty banana and not that one
club in Miami I mean an actual dirty
banana that's because like a lot of
cultivated fruit culinary bananas are so
inbred in Malfoy
that they can't produce offspring even
if they wanted to so word of advice for
you men out there if ever a lady points
out how poorly endowed you are just show
her this JPEG she'll say wow I didn't
realize it was so potent and fertile you
really opened my eyes thank you
bananas aren't the only piece of produce
to follow this pattern they're not by a
longshot for example take the watermelon
according to Monsanto everybody's
favorite corporation the first evidence
of human cultivation of the watermelon
dates back to Egypt around 5,000 years
ago back then there were only 2 inches
in diameter around the size of a tennis
ball the flesh was supposedly tough and
bitter much like that of a tennis ball
of course just as the growth of a
delicious green baby takes time so too
did the evolution of the modern
watermelon in fact even as late as the
mid 1600s watermelons looked way
different for what we have today as
shown by this painting by Giovanni Stan
Qi notice the thicker rind the larger
seeds in the weird segmentation on the
inside
definitely a cooler still life subject
but ultimately inferior as a summertime
snack
how about vegetables tell me do you
enjoy cabbage brussel sprouts kale
collard greens broccoli or cauliflower I
mean I guess I like broccoli and
cauliflower or the rest are kind of
grossly wrong all six of these
vegetables are actually the same thing
that means you like them all that's not
how that works I'll be good anyway these
veggies are all just cultivars of the
same species Brassica oleracea otherwise
known as wild cabbage every part of the
plant is edible to some extent but
there's not much of it to go around so a
bunch of different people throughout
history said all right what if we just
take one specific part of the plant and
go [__] insane with it and that's
what they did
those who bred four giant leaves got
kale going for huge dense flower buds
gets you broccoli juicy and Gorge
lateral leaf buds equal Brussels sprouts
etc speaking of segues let's check out
eggplants the og eggplant was first
domesticated in India where it can still
be found in the wild today it looks
nothing like an eggplant though they
actually resemble little green berries
the size of grapes the only thing it
seems to have in common with the classic
purple eggplant is how little both of
them have in common with an egg however
if we add the RGB percentage values of
their color and merge their shapes we do
get what looks approximately like an egg
so I guess that solves that mystery this
whole transformation really is a
testament to man
greatness though that's like starting
out with a frog and selectively breeding
them until you end up with grimace from
McDonald's lore speaking of which did
you know grimace used to be evil and
have four arms this is a real thing I'd
like to think that when they lapped off
his extra limbs all his evil energy went
with them and now there's just two plum
purple cylinders scampering around the
countryside waiting to pull unsuspecting
kids under ball pits never to be seen
again
that's just my McDonald's head cannon
though anyway back to whatever we were
talking about next is corn or sorry
maize I call it corn like a normal
person if it was supposed to be called
maize these would be called maize mazes
obviously that's like the perfect
opportunity but they're not so putting
the etymological sock in it or stocking
anyway I was totally expecting old corn
to look like those baby corns you find
in Chinese food and literally nowhere
else turns out those actually are just
baby corns one suspected ancestor of
corn is known as Thao Sinti which looks
like this
gee whiz Sam that sure does look like
garbage good eye Billy that's because it
was garbage whereas modern corn as a
kernel count in the hundreds Thao Sinti
only has 5 to 12 with each one being
encased in a hard shell that's basically
impossible to get in too short of
boiling it or chipping a tooth the fact
that people decided to domesticate it in
the first place makes sense once he
realized that most grains are basically
the same thing but honestly that just
makes me wish people figured out how to
turn a piece of wheat into a big chunk
of whatever to gnaw on this whole thing
disappointed me so much that I actually
moved it to the top of my list of
reasons not to visit the Mayans if I
ever get a time machine nonetheless as
you can see human endeavor can
accomplish amazing things and just as a
few thousand years of selective breeding
can turn this into this a few hours of
learning we can turn you into you know a
more talented and interesting version of
you and what better way to do that than
with Skillshare calm Skillshare is an
online learning community with over
22,000 classes in technology design
business and more Premium Membership
gives you unlimited access to
high-quality classes on must know topics
so you can improve your skills unlock
new opportunities and do the work you
love they've got great courses in just
about any creative pursuit you can think
of I used to be totally musically
illiterate till I took this course that
I made this
what about food you like food course you
do you'd be dead if you didn't with
Skillshare you can make your own
macaroons fresh pasta spring rolls
whatever join the millions of students
already learning on Skillshare today
with a special offer just for my viewers
where you can get two months of
Skillshare for free to sign up go to sk
l dot s h / samo - again for those in
the back go to sk l dot s h / samo - to
get two months of unlimited access to
over 22,000 classes for free act now for
this special offer and start learning
today anyway so next time I'm Salmonella
and thank you for watching
[Music]
premium ended premium mender mentorship
with the